#### Magic Intention: Accumulate a Mass of Mana

When you declare this intention, you accumulate mana from your Mana Pool equal to your Mana Accumulation. If you are unable to perform somatic or verbal components, your MA is halved, or quartered if you cannot perform either component. If you take no other Intention and do not perform any Action except to defend yourself this round, you can gain the benefit of your MA again at the end of the round, all modifiers apply.

By accumulating a mass of mana, you have no clear goal for its expense. You simply pull the mana from your Pool into the world until you find a spell that is appropriate for the current situations. This mass of mana can be used to cast any number of spells in a single round as long as you have mana to spend. During the End Phase of the round that you cast any spell with your mass of mana, all the remaining mana returns to your Pool.

If you have a mass of mana from the previous round and your mass of mana greater than ten times your Final Mana Accumulation Value or you do not take the [@action Accumulate a Mass of Mana @] intention again, your mass of mana will return to your Pool before rolling [@skill Initiative @]. Due to the stress of the mana returning without a proper outlet, you lose 10 mana from your Pool. Alternatively, you can choose to transform the mass of mana into a prepared spell. See the [@action Accumulate for a Prepared Spell @] intention for more details.


{% include example.html content="Ceil has been Accumulating Pure Mana for four turns. On the start of the fifth turn she has 150 mana available. On her turn she casts Create Light for 20 points, Shield of Light of 50 points, and Induce Calm for 40. The total comes to 110 points, which means she has 40 points remaining. She can use these points to cast another spell or they will return to her pool at the end of the round. Since she had a controlled mana release, she does not lose 10 points. Next round she can start accumulating mana again, starting at zero." %}