#### Magic Intention: Accumulate for a Prepared Spell

When you declare this intention, you must also declare a spell and all its options to be prepared for casting. You then accumulate mana from your Mana Pool equal to your Mana Accumulation. If you are unable to perform somatic or verbal components, your MA is halved, or quartered if you cannot perform either component. If you take no other intention and do not perform any action except to defend yourself this round, you can gain the benefit of your MA again at the end of the round, all modifiers apply.

Any mana accumulated this way can only be used for the prepared spell. Once the Mana Cost is accumulated, you can cast the spell this round or you can delay casting the prepared spell for a number of rounds equal to your Focus Characteristic. If you have not cast the prepared spell before the End Phase of the last round that you can delay, the prepared mana returns to your Pool and you lose 10 mana.

While delayed, the prepared mana is not subject to losing concentration from damage and the prepared spell can be cast when you have the appropriate action. Each round you will still have to perform the [@action Maintain Mana @] action on your turn since the mana you hold is still unstable. You do not have to take the [@action Accumulate for a Prepared Spell @] intention with the same spell and options since the spell is already fully prepared. You can declare any other [@action Magic @] intention, even starting another prepared spell.

If you have prepared mana from the previous round and do not take the [@action Accumulate for a Prepared Spell @] intention with the same spell and options, your prepared mana will return to your Pool before rolling [@skill Initiative @]. Due to the stress of the mana returning without a proper outlet, you lose 10 mana from your Pool.

If you have a mass of mana from the previous round, when you declare the [@action Accumulate for a Prepared Spell @] you can convert that mass of mana into prepared mana. Any excess returns to your Pool.