---
title: "Step 6: Fill in the Rest"
permalink: rule_creation_6_fill.html
---

All that remains are a few final steps.

## Innate Bonuses
As the result of your Race, Features, and Class, some of your skills and abilities will improve without having to invest XP. These innate bonuses are added at 1st level and again at each level increment noted.

### Class Bonuses
Each Class has an innate bonus for Life Points and [@skill Initiative @]. These are added each time you gain a level.

### Limitation to Strike, Block, Dodge Innate Bonuses
Some Classes and Features grant an innate bonus of `+1` every other level in [@skill Strike @], [@skill Block @], or [@skill Dodge @] skills. Whereas improvement in other skills have no limits, the innate bonus increase for [@skill Strike @], [@skill Block @], and [@skill Dodge @] can never be greater than `+5`, that is to say, ten levels of innate bonuses. Even if you change Classes, this limit applies.

## Life Points
Life Points (LP) represent the amount of damage you can suffer before dying or receiving a Critical.

Your Final Life Point Value is based on [@stat Constitution @]. As with skills, your Life Points have a Base Value, which is equal to 20 + your Constitution times your Life Point Multiple. You then add any innate or natural factors to get your Final Life Point Value. Your Life Point Multiplier starts at ten and increases by one each time you invest in it.

{% include equation.html eq = "Final LP = 20 + (Constitution × (10 + LP Mult)) + (natural and innate factors)" %}

## Initiative
The Base [@skill Initiative @] Value of a normal-sized character is always 10. To calculate the Final [@skill Initiative @] Value, add your [@stat Dexterity @] and [@stat Agility @] Modifiers. Finally, add your innate and natural factors. This number will be modified each round depending on what you intend to do.

## Presence and Resistance
Presence is the sum of all of your existential aspects -- both physical and spiritual. You have an almost unlimited potential to develop your abilities; the more developed, the greater the Presence. Your Presence starts at 3 and increases by one every odd level.

In Kaiser, there are five types of Resistance, each one protecting you against a different type of negative effect. Resistance values are calculated by adding your Presence to the applicable Characteristic Modifier. The five types of resistance are:

**Presence (PrR)**: This is the sum of your existence. This is not affected by any Characteristics.

**Physical Resistance (PhR)**: This represents your bodies ability to tolerate shock or withstand force. Based on [@stat Constitution @].

**Immune Resistance (IR)**: This represents your ability to avoid falling ill or being affected by a disease and poisons. Based on [@stat Constitution @].

**Spirit Resistance (SR)**: This represents how well your spirit can resist an effect of supernatural origin. Based on [@stat Focus @].

**Mental Resistance (MR)**: This represents your control of internal forces, allowing you to resist mental attacks. Based on [@stat Willpower @].

## Primary and Secondary Groups
Your knowledge and expertise in certain tasks are known as Skills. Each Skill has a number of points that represent the sum of your natural talent and training. These Skills are broken up into Primary and Secondary Groups. Complete detail can be found (here)[rule_skill_intro.html].

### Primary Groups
The Primary Groups represent your basic faculties and are divided into three areas: Martial, Magic, and Manifest.

#### Martial Group
These abilities encompass your skills in fighting with your physical body, sometimes enhanced by your spirit. The Martial Group contains the following skills and abilities:

**Strike**: This represents your ability to strike your opponent and deal damage. This skill depends on [@stat Dexterity @]. 

**Block**: This represents your ability to place an object between you and a threat. This skill depends on [@stat Dexterity @].

**Dodge**: This represents your ability to remove yourself from a dangerous position. This skill depends on [@stat Agility @].

**Wear Armor**: This represents your ability to wear and move around in armor. This skill depends on [@stat Strength @].

**Ki Reserve**: This is your pool of spiritual energy called, ki. Ki is generated by a spirit inhabiting a body and can be used to exploit talents. How to calculate your Ki Reserve's Final Value can be found (here)[rule_spirit_ki.html].

**Chakras**: You have three chakras, Red, Green, and Blue. Your chakras are your access points to your Ki Reserve. By investing in your chakras, you can exploit talents faster. How to find each chakras Final Value can be found (here)[rule_spirit_ki.html].

**Spirit Knowledge**: This is your knowledge of how to use your spirit and body together. You use this knowledge to gain talents.

**Talents**: These are special powers that you can gain by understanding your body and spirit. Each talent costs some spirit knowledge.

**Weapon Modules**: These are your training with various weapon. The first time you invest XP in your [@skill Strike @] skill, you gain one Single Weapon Module for free. Any Weapon Module after that requires XP to be invested. The list of Weapon Modules can be found (here)[char_martial_module_weapons.html].

**Style Modules**: These are your specialized styles of fighting. Each time you invest in a Style Module, you increase some aspect of your combat ability. All Style Module requires XP to be invested. The list of Style Modules can be found (here)[char_martial_module_style.html].

**Martial Arts**: These are your mastery of unarmed fighting, honing your punches and kicks to be as deadly as any weapon. All martial arts require XP to be invested. There are two levels of martial arts. The basic level can be found (here)[char_spirit_martial_art_basic.html].

**Master Arts**: These are a mix of physical and spiritual perfection that grant you a power or the ability to fight with impossible weapons. Each master art costs XP and spirit knowledge.

#### Magic Group
These abilities focus on the use of mana to cast spells or open doorways to the Veil. The Magic Group contains the following 

**Mana Pool**: This is a measure of your spirit's capacity to store mana. How to calculate your Mana Pool's Final Value can be found (here)[rule_magic_mana.html].

**Mana Accumulation**: This ability represents your capacity to pull mana, held within your spirit, into your environment to cast spells or transfer it. How to calculate your Mana Accumulation's Final Value can be found (here)[rule_magic_mana.html].

**Mana Recovery**: This ability represents your ability to gather your mana back into your spirit.

**Magic Projection Skill**: This represents your ability to direct spells. This skill depends upon the [@stat Perception @] Characteristic.

**Summon Skill**: This represents your capacity to bring forth supernatural creatures from other worlds. This skill depends upon your [@stat Focus @] Characteristic.

**Control Skill**: This represents your capacity to control certain supernatural beings. Control depends upon the [@stat Willpower @] Characteristic.

**Banish Skill**: This represents your ability to expel supernatural beings from this plane. It depends upon the [@stat Focus @] Characteristic.

**Mana Knowledge**: This is your total ability to understand the theory of mana and memorize spells.

**Mystical Modules**: This represents your capacity to utilize magic and spells in new or more efficient ways.

**Principles**: These are modifications to your magic.

#### Manifest Group
Manifest abilities cover everything related to the area of phenomonon in reality, known as phenom, and their uses.

**Phenom Projection Skill**: This represents your capacity to target creatures or objects with your phenom. This skill depends upon your [@stat Perception @].

**Phenom Points (PP)**: These points are used to develop and utilize your phenom.

**Potential**: This is a special value that can only be increased by investing PP, as opposed to XP. It is based on your [@stat Willpower @].

**Manifest Modules**: This represents your capacity to utilize phenom in new or more efficient ways.

### Secondary Groups
Naturally, you possess much more complexity than simply being able to fight or cast spells. These are known as Secondary Skills and each one is part of a Secondary Group and is linked to a specific Characteristic. For example, the [@skill Acrobatics @] Skill is in the Exertion Group and depends upon your Agility, while [@skill Sciences @] fall under the Intellectual Group and depend upon [@stat Aptitude @]. A complete list of Secondary Skills can be found [here](todo.html).

### Calculating and Using Skills
To calculate your final Primary or Secondary Skill, add the Base Value (what you get by investing Experience Points) to the Modifier of the Characteristic tied to that skill. Lastly, add any other special modifiers like innate bonuses from your Heritage, Features, and Class. The result will be the Final Skill Value, the number added to a Skill Check roll. 

## Final Details
Now that you know all the basic things needed to create your character, you can fill in your character sheet. Keep in mind that the Hertiage, Classes, and Features sections will provide the remaining fine details.

Below is a final check list of things you need to do to create your character:
1.	Generate Characteristics
2.	Choose Race
3.	Choose Class
4.	Buy Features
5.	Invest XP
6.	Add Innate Bonuses
7.	Calculate Derived Characteristics
8.	Calculate Life Points
9.	Calculate Initiative
10.	Calculate Presence and Resistance
11.	Calculate final value for Primary Skills
12.	Calculate final value for Secondary Skills