---
title: Spells
permalink: rule_magic_spell.html
---

A spell is in essence a formula that allows you to input mana to cause a change, whether that be within you or in the world. Spells are organized into three groups: High, Low, and General. Each group is then composed of several Paths, twelve in total. Paths in the High Magic Group are Light, Shadow, Creation, Destruction, and Necromancy. The Paths in the Low Magic Group are Fire, Water, Earth, Air, Essence, and Illusion. The General Group only contains the General Path.

The major difference between the High and Low Groups is the amount of flexibility in learning magic from the General Group. Higher Magic is more rigid and allows you to learn half the number of General Spells that a Lower Path could.

## Paths of Magic
Each path consists of 100 levels of knowledge, every 2 levels granting a new spell.

### Light
This Path gives you control over one of the two Higher Elements, light. The Domain of Light magic includes manipulating positive energy in addition to the physical light. This positive energy can be used to heal wounds, alter positive emotions, or detect living creatures. The Path of Light is opposed by the Path of Shadow. 

### Shadow
This Path gives you control over one of the two Higher Elements, darkness. The Domain of Shadow magic includes manipulation of the negative energies of the world, such as negative emotions, shadows, and secrets. The Path of Shadow is opposed by the Path of Light.

### Creation
This Path gives you control over the fundamental force of organizing reality. These spells allow you to heal, change, or create things. The Path of Creation is opposed by the Path of Destruction.

### Destruction
This Path gives you control over the fundamental force of removing order within reality. These spells allow you to destroy objects and creatures alike. The Path of Destruction is opposed by the Path of Creation.

### Fire
This Path gives you control over one of the four Lower Elements, fire. The Domain of Fire magic allows you to consume your body and soul to increase your power as well as introduce heat to an object. The Path of Fire is opposed by the Path of Water.

### Water
This Path gives you control over one of the four Lower Elements, water. The Domain of Water allows you to reflect and freeze certain aspects of reality as well as manipulate and freeze liquids. The Path of Water is opposed by the Path of Fire.

### Air
This Path gives you control over one of the four Lower Elements, air. The Domain of Air allows you to grant objects movement without apparent means of propulsion as well as manipulate the winds of the world. The Path of Air is opposed by the Path of Earth.

### Earth
This Path gives you control over one of the four Lower Elements, earth. The Domain of Earth allows you to manipulate fundamental laws of reality such as atomic density and gravity as well as shaping the rock and dirt of the planet. The Path of Earth is opposed by the Path of Air.

### Essence
This Path gives you control over the force of life, the soul. Essence spells allow you to connect to soul of the world and commune with nature as well as manipulate the soul of another creature. The Path of Essence is opposed by the Path of Illusion.

### Illusion
This Path gives you control over the mind of others. Illusion spells allow you alter the perception of those around you and introduce paranoia and deception. The Path of Illusion is opposed by the Path of Essence.

### Necromancy
This Path is the perversion of all other magic. Mana is generated by the souls of living and the dead alike and can be used to fuel other spells before it is returned, but Necromancy spells permanently destroy the mana used to cast them. This destruction of mana allows you to return a soul from beyond the Veil or drain the essence of a creature. Necromancy is opposed by all other Paths of magic.

### General
General magic is not organized in the same manner as the other paths of magic. The spells found here are very flexible but not quite complete; this is because the foundational formula to learn each of them is different for each person who casts them. As a result, General spells can be learned alongside the other paths, inheriting some of their style. General spells do not fit into other paths or they let you replicate spells from other paths, albeit at a different cost. Some general spells do have a restriction on what Path they can be learned with, as the underlying formula of that Path is not compatible with that General spell.

High Paths of magic can only accommodate one General spell for every ten levels you gain while Low Paths allow you to learn two General spells every ten levels. Each path will list at what level you can learn a General spell.

There also exists special groupings of ten General spells called Sub-paths. These Sub-paths are a set of spells with common themes that build upon each other's formula. In order to master them, you must devote yourself to a Sub-path when take your first General spell as part of a Path. Once chosen, every ten levels in that Path you must take the next spell in the Sub-path. Since High Paths only have flexibility to learn ten General Spells, you can only take one Sub-path. Low Paths allow you to select up to two different Sub-paths, but you will always learn one of them before the other.

## Learning Spells
As you invest in a spell path, you will learn one spell for every two mana knowledge. Some of these spells will come from the General path. If you start to invest into two paths that are opposing, like the Fire and Water paths, it becomes difficult to master the opposing theorems. Investing in a path that opposes one of your current paths, it takes twice as much mana knowledge to do so. Necromancy is a special case; due to its nature it opposes all other Paths of Magic.

Once you start learning an opposing path, the lower leveled path will have the increased cost. As a result, it is not recommended you keep them evenly leveled.

### Choosing Specific Spells
Instead of learning spells in a structured theory, you can choose to invest mana knowledge to master a single spell. This method allows you to choose any spell and pay a special cost for it. Higher level spells costs more mana knowledge since it requires you to understand a more complex topic without the underlying knowledge. The cost for each Spell Level Range is listed below. Spells from a path that opposes any known path still have their cost doubled.

{% include table-index.html table="magic" index="210" %}

## Paragon and Divine Magic
Spells of 81 and higher are special spells. Mortals are unable to cast these spells as they lack the proper spiritual existence to control such energies. That is not to say that you are unable to learn them, just that any attempt to cast them will cause the mana to be lost and the spell to no take effect.

The requirements to cast spell between 81 and 90, called Paragon Spells, is having a Nornir of 25 or higher and the ability to perform Zen actions. Spells of 91 and higher are called Divine Magic. They require you to have a Nornir of 40 or higher and the ability to perform Divine actions.

This limitation does not apply to spells in the General Group.
